So we'll ramp up and pick up where we left
off which was I believe I was on step 4,
and I pushed up the signup
off API function to step 4.
So we'll continue with that, and move into
making the sign in API function which
is pretty similar to sign up, except
we're not creating a user, we're just
checking to see if the user exists, and
then issuing the same token as a cookie.
So very, very similar.
So if you wanna head over
to our code as a refresher,
all of our API routes are gonna
be in the pages slash API folder,
and we should already
have a sign up TS here.
This hello js that got generated, you
could totally delete it, we don't need it,
it's up to you.
That's just what got generated with
the create next app thing that we did
the beginning of the course so
we don't really need it.
I am gonna make a new file here for
sign in, I'm gonna call that signin,ts.
And again like I said the strategy for
this one is we're gonna expect an email
and a password to be sent up to the API,
we're gonna check that email to see if
there's a user in the database
by that email, if there is,
then we're gonna compare the hash
passwords and see if they are the same.
If they are, this person is who they
say they are, they are a valid user,
generate them a token,
set it in the cookie, go on with our day.
If they are not, we're gonna for a while,
like, obviously you gave us the wrong
email password combination so
you cannot sign in.
And that's pretty much
what we're gonna do.
So again, it's very similar to sign up but
not quite.
So let's go ahead and get started with
this, we're gonna import bcrypts and
the ccrypt and
just like we did in the sign up.
Again, if you're using bcrypt JS,
it should be the same API.
So should be able to follow
here pretty similar.
And then we're gonna import the JSON
web token from JSON Web Token or
people pronounce it jot,
I don't know how JWT sounds out to jot.
But, [LAUGH] when you here someone say it
jot, that's what they're talking about.
They're talking about a JSON Web Token.
A couple years ago, someone said
that to me, I was like, a what?
A JWT, and I was like,
no, jot, I'm like, okay,
I guess that's what we're calling it.
So yeah, that's the thing.
And then we're gonna import our Prisma
clients that we created inside of our lib,
so we'll have that.
And then we're just
gonna export a function.
So export default async function,
actually see export defaults, there we go.
We don't really need a name like that,
we'll just do error function.
There we go and just like every other API,
we get requests, we get a response.
I'm going to type check them so
I'm gonna say Next API requests.
That way we can get some
nice autocomplete and code,
code intelligence,
whatever you wanna call it.
And then the next API response here.
Cool.
So because I'm making an API,
I get to set the rules on what I
expect to be posted to this route so
because I am making the sign in,
I'm saying you must send me an email, and
you must send me a password on the body so
I'm gonna say given that wrecked up body.
So we got the email and password here, and
then the next thing is let's try
to find a user with this email.
And if we look at our
schema just as a refresher,
we know that users have a unique email.
So it's safe to look up the user by
email because they don't share that.
So we should be pretty good here.
So now I'm gonna do that, I'm gonna say
const user equals await prisma.user,
get that nice autocomplete dot,
and we wanna do find unique,
find unique is like fine one if
you've ever used any other ORM that's
basically what that is, except
the only query parameters that you can
pass to find unique have to be fields
that are also unique on the schema.
So in this case, for the user,
the user only has two unique fields
that's in ID and that's email.
So we couldn't search for a user using
the find unique by I don't know,
playlists, for
some reason we could not do that.
We would have to use a fine mini and
do it that way.
Because it's not indexed and running an
index queries can be really, really slow.
You just scan the whole database looking
for one thing, so you don't want that.
That is where like indexing strategies and
that's where it gets complicated.
So if your full stack are fine and
you probably won't have to deal with that,
usually some back end person
will probably do that but
if you're wondering that's
where that happens.
And then we're gonna use
the where property here and
then we're gonna say where email is email.
So find this user where email is email.
And then we're gonna do a check.
So if we get a user, and
we're gonna check that user's password
versus the password hash, so
we'll say, and bcrypt.compareSync,
and the first argument is gonna be
the the password that they sent up so
the un-hash password and
then the next argument is gonna
be the hashed password which
will be user.password,
so look at that If that is the case and
we do get that,
we're pretty much gonna do
the same thing we did in signup.
We're gonna create a job, set it to the
cookie, and then send that cookie back.
Well, I guess cookies always sent
back we set them on the header and
then we're just gonna send the user
back to us on a front end.
So let's do that, so
we'll say const token equals jwt.sign,
there we go, so jwt.sign and
that takes in of a couple arguments,
the first one is gonna be
the payload that we wanna create, so
in this case it's gonna
be an object with an ID,
that'll be the user's ID cuz we
wanna be able to verify that user.
Might as well throw the email
in there that's unique, and
then we'll put a time property on here
as date dot now as when we created this.
Then the next one is gonna
be the secret for your JWT.
Again, you probably wanna put this
in an environment variable so
you can not have it exposed
in plain text and reuse it.
I wanna make sure I'm using the same one,
I just used the word hello here, so
you have to do the same one.
So I'm gonna do that, hello.
And then the next one is just some
options and I could say, expiresIn,
I think we did eight hours to the last
one, pretty sure, let me check.
Yeah, we did eight hours.
So I'm gonna do the same thing,
keep it consistent.
So there we go, we got our token and
the next thing is to set
that token on the header.
So we say res.setheader, and
the header that we wanna use is
called Set-Cookie like that, so
we can set the cookie, and
then we're gonna use the cookie.serialize,
which is a function that
takes in a bunch of stuff.
So the first thing is we wanna pass
in the name of the cookie, and
I believe we called it,
there we go, TRAX_ACCESS_TOKEN.
So like that, in fact, actually I'm just
gonna copy this whole config here cuz it's
literally the same thing.
So we're gonna go back.
Here we go.
So
we're gonna pass in
the name of the cookie,
followed by the token as the value of
the cookie underneath these options.
And then to go over the options over time,
so
HTTP only just means you can only
access this cookie via HTTP.
So basically you won't be able to access
it on the front end through JavaScript.
So that makes it a little more secure.
Max age is how long
the cookie is valid for,
I made it eight hours the same
as the JWT is valid for.
Path is like, where or what site like
what routes have access to this cookie,
just means the whole site.
Same site, still don't know what that is,
need to look that up, but
I've always been doing that.
If anyone knows what that is let me know.
You know what that is?
>> [INAUDIBLE] Do it like when you
click on a link and whether or
not it should share the cookie
to that third party,
lax is like the base default and
then the other parameter is strict and
strict is like it will only go to a first
party site, we will not pass the cookie.
>> I think that's funny that it's called
lax, [LAUGH] cuz it's like relax,
it's just lax.
>> Cuz I was confused as well,
I was like what does is stand for?
I mean, like, I'm super lax.
>> Yeah, I'm lax, so
lax cookie, I like it.
Okay, I learned something today.
And then secure should be
encrypted only in production cuz
we're not using HTTPS on localhost.
So once we do that,
then we can just send the user back.
So just be rest JSON and then user.
So we did all that if these conditions are
true, if these conditions are not true,
well, we just wanna send back a 401 and
then typically I send back an error.
So I'll say, set status, or
I think it's just status, there we go,
401, and then I'll say res.json error,
and I'll say like,
I don't know, email or
password is wrong, something like that.
Whatever you want it back, it's your app.
And that's it, that's sign in.
So with this,
we should be able to sign in and
get a cookie after we've
already signed up.
We can test this by
signing up obviously and
then trying to sign in, or
we get this used is the credentials
of the seated user that we
created which was like,
here we go, so we can use these
credentials to test it out.
I'm gonna use http post to localhost
3000 slash API slash sign in,
and then for my email I'm gonna
use the one that we seed it.
I think I still have that in my database,
I can verify drop my database yesterday or
not, but we're about to find out.
So usertest.com, and
then password was just password, so
we'll try to sign in here,
and there we go.
We were able to sign in,
we got back password, and
you can see the cookie was set here, track
access token, so sign in looks to be good.
We can test this by just goofing
up the password, right click and
see what happens.
So we goof that up, you can see we
got email or password is wrong.
And then if I goof up the email,
We can see we get the same thing,
email or password is wrong.
Like I said,
it's pretty similar to sign up,
it's not that difficult
as far as a new concepts.
Literally, the same thing it
was just not creating a user.